Welcome back in I want it in this lesson add in a few different buttons here.
So we wanted one for input type and button and this one is going to actually save.
So given an idea of save.
And then next let's do one more.
And this one is going to do.
Clear.
So basically this will clear out our image and allow us to start again.
So this one will give an idea of clear and close off.
So next we also need to add some values to here so that we know what it is.
So save and value.
So this one is clear.
So let's refresh.
So there we go we've got our couple of buttons and we should start this off as black to be consistent
with what's available within the color picker or we could update the value of the color picker to be
black eyes or red whatever we want to do.
So it's always a good idea to be consistent.
So we need to add some functionality in here so we need to add an event listener to those buttons.
So it's not grabbing those buttons or do the same thing here to get listeners to them.
And this one is as an ID of save
and we're just going to add the listener like this to it.
So whenever this gets clicked then we're going to fire off the function and then whatever's in here
is going to actually be what happens.
So this is going to be the saving of that content.
So let's first of all let's clean this up a bit and let's duplicate that.
So we need one more for the clear so that Button's going to fire off the clear.
So we've got save in here.
And we've got clear over here.
So first of all let's do save So we know that earlier we saw that we can grab
the data you are L..
Let's set that up.
Peter you are Al and we want to do from Kansas.
We want to do two data
you or else so we're going to take that whole object and we're going to turn into a data Eurail And
let's just make sure that we're picking that up properly.
So let's add that into the con..
So go back out refreshed the page and whenever we hit save and we open up the console.
So there's a generated image that we generated from the canvas.
So basically all of this is going to represent what we've got within the canvas as base 64.
So we're ready to actually place it within our Web page if we want it to.
So now let's let's add in another image so this is the image that's actually going to hold the content.
So you put that down below.
And this is going to be image source.
So we'll give it a blank source.
And I'm going to make it small so you got to give it a with
of 300 pics.
And give it a height
so the height of 200.
So there are image.
And we also need to give it a name so an ID so we can identify it and this will be our holder.
So now we're ready to put that.
So document get element by ID.
So let's put it to Holder source and we're going to equal the source to the data.
So let's refresh that and see how that works out.
So now let's draw something hit save is image.
And if we update it if we draw something else hit save.
So there's a newly created image we can open up a new tab or we can save image as.
So that's how we can recreate the images that are there.
And whenever we hit Save we create that brand new image from our canvas element.
So the next thing that we want to do is we want to be able to clear out the canvas so no always set
up this clear button.
And right now it's not doing anything.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and think back to the previous last where we used clear
rectangle starting at zero and zero by the height and width of the canvas.
And that allows us to basically clear out the canvas.
So think back to that previous lesson I want you to add in that functionality in and I'll show you the
solution coming up so we know that we have CTX as our drawing object.
So we know that that is in place and we saw that we use this method clear rectangle we need it in some
parameters.
So we need X and Y and then we also needed the canvas width and canvas height so we can add those and
so canvas width and canvas height.
So in case they change.
So we've just got at those values in the one place so we can change the height at any time and that's
all we need to do in order to clear that out.
So let's try this again.
Clear let's draw something and see it and notice when we save it even if we clear out our canvas and
we save it again that we get that brand new newly freshly created image
and save again.
So this is the way that you can create images on the fly using canvas and you can also draw directly
within the canvas and a whole lot more.
All of this using javascript in combination with a team of five canvas element.
So go ahead and take the script try it for yourself see what different updates you can make to that
script to make it even better.